---
tags:
  - InterviewPrep
---
# Framework
### Be succinct, honest, and engaging
* I call this the "SHE" formula. Resist the urge to give a detailed account of the last two decades of your career. The interviewer is looking for an answer that shows them you are qualified and can respond to and unstructured question.
### Use the job description to prepare
* reread what they want and highlight the most required skills that you have. Are they looking for someone who can solve problems or deal with tough customers? Pick a few and brainstorm how you can describe yourself while showcasing your strengths for what they're seeking.
### Tie your story to their needs.
People love a good tale, so wave in some personality. For example, maybe you fell in love with the hospitality industry because your grandparents ran a bed and breakfast. Connect your story back to the job, keep it short and be truthful.
## Sample 1
From a very early age I've been a problem solver. I was that kid who would take part anything so I could see how it worked - and then try to put it back together. As you can imagine, it drove my parents nuts. But even though I tortured my family at times, the tinkering trait has served me well in my career. After graduating form Purdue, I was recruited into a field technician job and got paid to take apart broken packaging equipment. I was like living the dream. That job also made me realize I'm really good with difficult customers, and that what helpme land my current account manager role. While I love my job and have been successful in it, it has moved me away from the manufacturing floor. Now, the reason I'm so interested in this position is that it seems to provide a really great blend of one-on-one work with clients and hands-on problem solving. 

Why this answer work well: He gave me a vivid image of his childhood home and told a memorable story about i. He picked to prominent required skills from the job description, problem solving and customer service, and built this interesting narrative around it. He showed how his career successfully evolved before he was even asked about that.

## Sample 2
In my current role as the marketing analyst responsible for a shampoo product line, my core responsibility is to assist the marketing manager to prepare the analytics for monthly sales, as well as a sales prediction model. I also manage the campaign budget, prepare wrap-up reports, and connect with our marketing agencies. All of this requires analytical thinking, attention to detail, and clear communication skills. My current role has provided me solid execution experience in all the marketing aspects, including campaign planning, campaign management and analysis. I am looking for a marketing manager role, where I can make a bigger impact as an individual contributor, as well as delve into strategic planning, and potentially grow into a people manager in a few years.

Why this answer worked well: Passion for the subject matter and clear direction for the future were apparent. The answer focused on key skills and experiences relevant to the role ( rather than a rambling biography)

## Sample 3
I would describe myself as highly curious and focused on learning in all parts of life, personal and professional. In my professional life, I look for the hardest problems to solve and where I can learn and develop the most. I've taken on many different types of projects, including ads, virtual reality, commerce, and messaging. No matter what I'm working on, I'm very invested. I identify anyone I can learn from, as well as problems that I care about and try to optimize every step of the process. In my personal life, I spend a lot of time reading and usually have a focused area of interest for a longer period of time. For instance, last year, I read and researched public transportation systems and the future of transportation with emerging companies and autonomous vehicles. I found it fascination, and it actually sparked a desire to change industries- which eventually led me to my last role and even helped me to prepare me for the switch. Outside of reading and researching, I also love to travel, cook with friends and spend a lot of time running and being physically active outdoors.

Why this answer worked well: Background and type of experience were clearly explained. Candidate showcased a self starter mentality. Hobbies were framed to highlight benefits to professional life.

## Sample 4
I've been shipping consumer devices for the part two decades. Over the years, I've been built an expertise in firmware and bootloader designs. I've been lucky to have a few great mentors over the course of my career and find a great deal of personal and professional satisfaction begin able to do the same. I currently oversee a team of engineers and have helped grow several team members into managerial roles as well. Additionally, I like to stay active within the industry community, and recently spoke at DeveloperWeek conference. I've been happy at my current role, have managed many successful product launches, and really enjoy management. I'd like to use my expertise to deliver more impact on a growing company- to help grow and shape team and culture - and make significant impact in the market. 

Why this answer worked well: The answer was a well-rounded snapshot of professional interests and strengths. It was clear that they're active in the industry, and likely have a strong network. An interest in mentorship shows a willingness to invest time in the company, and energy into team members.

## Tips
* Prepare for this question in advance and have a compelling story about your past experiences.
* Pull prominent skills from the job description
* be "SHE"

# How to nail 2-mins story
## Why does it matter?
* 1st impression/ the tonality
* Shows up in 99% of interviews and in networking
## Content
* under 2 min
* logical flow - should be a story
* End with how you are exited to be here
## Structure
* Your origin - where you are from
* Education
* Experience 1->n
* Today
YEET - make sure that everything make sense, like why these experience lead you to this job?
## Delivery
* you are not a robot - YOU ARE NOT A ROBOT
* be a human, smile when talk, laugh if funny
* Be confident that you deserve to be there
* Be one of them
* "dial up" the energy - be hype up, be exited to be there

# Self Sample

* First of all, Thank you for the opportunity I'm so exited to be here today to interview for this job. My name is Toan, I come from Lam Dong, I've just graduate from Vietnamese German university with a dual certificate of VGU and FFA. Before I land here, I was a Full-stack developer intern at IT Dept of VGU in a project of creating a website for room browsing and booking system. This one is very interesting, actually, when I joined I actually serve as a Backend Dev instead, but few weeks out there were some problem with the staff, some of them dropped, so I was asked if I could also do the frontend or not, in order to meet the project deadline, so that Why I'm Full stack XD. After that, the contract ended, and I want to pause A while from full time job as I want to commit to my Bachelor Thesis so the last few month, I worked as a TA for the university. About the thesis project, I worked on a Web3, which is a website that connect with a blockchain service also because that I have very big interest in that technology, so I become the research assistant for my professor until now. The reason that I want to land on this job as 
	* Backend: I realize that I was too focus on too many broad field but not actually really good at specific field, even a web3 is still a website, I and want to focus on the part that I always want to focus on Backend.
	* HPC: *Recently done the research*, It make me have the thrive of learning new things with my experience in Web dev and complex concept like blockchain.
	* Testing: same as Backend but
	* Automate: same as backend but tell about 