---
tags:
  - InterviewPrep
---
>[! Overview]
>The interviewer is assessing whether your weaknesses will get in the way of doing the job. Employers are looking for humility and whether you're committed to learning and growing. This is a place you can showcase what you're doing to improve.

# Framework
This can feel like a tricky question, but it's a good opportunity to shine. Here are some tips on how to answer.
## Be humble.
You want to communicate an authentic story that shows you're self-aware. It's okay that you don't come off as perfect, that's authentic, which is important for someone who will have to trust you in the role that they're hiring for.
## Choose a trait that is not too relevant to the job
For example, if you're applying for a project manager role, choose a weakness that is more related to creativity, which is something that doesn't disqualify you from the description of the things that would make someone successful in that role.
## Show how you manage it
Have a fix-it strategy. For example, if you struggle with remembering product details so you track them in their phone or side notebook, that's okay, share that with them. That shows that you've got commitment to solving that problem and addressing it.
# Tips
* Employers are looking for self-awareness and personal accountability.
* It's good to be honest about what you're not great at.
* Share what you are doing to actively improve on this weakness.
# Sample 1
I get excited when people on my team brainstorm about big new ideas. I sometimes get so caught up in the moment that I volunteer to do too much. I know this can be a distraction in ways that put me at risk of not getting work done properly or missing deadlines.  I've been reflecting on why this happens. As I've become more conscious of this pattern, I'm working on ways to contain the negative aspects of my eagerness. One way that I do this is to still go to brainstorming meetings but to be more careful about offering to do the next steps- or limit it to one project that my boss supports. Fortunately, though, the job we're discussing seems well-suited for people like me, people that bring a lot of enthusiasm to the job and are ready to keep getting better and better at the follow through
Why this work: Story about a thing that stress im out. He turned his self-awareness into a plan to help him manage that weakness so he would be successful in the future. He shared specific details, which made the story feel relatable.
# Sample 2
# Sample 3
# Sample 4
# Self Sample